Kickstarter Campaign - From an idea to fully funded reality
December 2017

1.Introduction - Why Kickstarter?
Kickstarer's mission is to help bring creative projects to life. Since launching in 2009, 14 million people have backed a project, $3.4 billion has been pledged, and 134,135 projects have been successfully funded. Projects have many forms including food and publishing to music, fashion and technology. 

Kickstarter is all or nothing. If a project doesn't get every dollar, the project will not be successful. Kickstarter released their data on Kaggle with a challenge,  to predict if a project will get successfully funded or not.

2. Kickstarter Dataset 
To predict whether a project will get funded or not, we will look at the (Kaggle data set). The data contains the product description, goal amount, various project timelines and whether a project gets funded or not. In total there are 108,129 project from May 2009 - May 2015. For our purposes, we will focus on projects that use US currency. 

Variable Description
project_id: unique id of project
name: name of the project
desc: description of project
goal: the goal (amount) required for the project
keywords: keywords which describe project
disable communication: whether the project authors has disabled communication option with people donating to the project
country: country of project author
currency: currency in which goal (amount) is required
deadline: till this date the goal must be achieved (in unix time format)
state_changed_at: at this time the project status changed. Status could be successful, failed, suspended, cancelled etc. (in unix time format)
created_at: at this time the project was posted on the website(in unix time format)
launched_at: at this time the project went live on the website(in unix time format)
backers_count: number of people who backed the project
final_status: whether the project got successfully funded (target variable – 1,0)


3. Data Wrangling & Exploring the Data
First the data, train.csv, is downloaded from Kaggle and uploaded into RStudio. Next we will subset the data to only use projects with the US currency. This is still 85% of the projects. 

We will be analyzing over 92k projects. Of the projects, 33% were funded. 

[Idea to look into more]
- since the start the goal amount per year … (show graph)
- any major shifts in the data from 2009-2015?


Next we/I took the time variables that were in unix and extracted the date and time. These variables included deadline, state_changed_at, created_at and launched_at. From these we created several new variables to get a better understanding of how long the projects lasted and whether the start or end time had an impact. 

[mindset change: look into specific times to see if they had an impact]
- day of the week that looks the best for launched and/or deadline
- month that is best for launched and/or deadline?
- hour? 

Finally we turned the numeric final status with 0s and 1s to a factor with unfunded and funded. 

[Limitations]  
Interesting to know amount of each project's exposure on the website.


Next steps
4. Machine Learning (?) Method Analysis? 
CART and Random Forest 
-will use ROC curve to determine best model

5. Results -> Recommendations

Appendix
R code
